3D Printed Parts/Enclosure Version 2/BaseBox/README.md, before:

﻿**Description:**

The Basebox is the base of the PiTrac version 2 enclosure.  The Basebox consists of three parts - a Main Body, an End-Cap that fits into the body, and a Light Shield that fits into the other two parts.  The Basebox houses the Meanwell power supply unit and secures the tower that holds all of the electronics, cameras, and other parts. 
A [FreeCAD 1.0](https://www.freecad.org/downloads.php) compatible parameterized model is included here along with .stl files.

**Printing Notes:**

PLA works well for this, but PETG probably would as well. The main body is printed standing on its closed end, which makes for a pretty high print.  You may need to make sure your printer won't have problems near the top of the print.

Recommended print settings: 2 perimeter layers (3 for a little more strength), 15% infill, grid or rectilinear infill patterns, custom painted-on supports (see the Prusa Slicer .3mf file for where the supports are needed). The main body requires glue-stick glue on the printer bed and we recommend a 7mm brim assist because of the height and relatively small print base.  
The end-cap is a pretty easy print, and should not need glue or a brim.

The Light Shield Body prints pretty well with any settings, but we use 2 perimeter layers, 15% infill, grid infill and no supports, brims, or glue.

Note that a beginning of a sketch for an x-shaped leveling support base has been started in the model, but is not finished and not yet printable.

**Assembly Notes:**

See the [main assembly instructions](https://github.com/jamespilgrim/PiTrac/blob/main/Documentation/PiTrac%20Version%202%20Assembly.md).

Commit message:

Added a shank shield model and corresponding .dxf file to help folks cut/mill the shield.

3D Printed Parts/Enclosure Version 2/BaseBox/README.md, after:

﻿**Description:**

The Basebox is the base of the PiTrac version 2 enclosure.  The Basebox consists of three parts - a Main Body, an End-Cap that fits into the body, and a Light Shield that fits into the other two parts.  The Basebox houses the Meanwell power supply unit and secures the tower that holds all of the electronics, cameras, and other parts. 
A [FreeCAD 1.0](https://www.freecad.org/downloads.php) compatible parameterized model is included here along with .stl files.

**Printing Notes:**

PLA works well for this, but PETG probably would as well. The main body is printed standing on its closed end, which makes for a pretty high print.  You may need to make sure your printer won't have problems near the top of the print.

Recommended print settings: 2 perimeter layers (3 for a little more strength), 15% infill, grid or rectilinear infill patterns, custom painted-on supports (see the Prusa Slicer .3mf file for where the supports are needed). The main body requires glue-stick glue on the printer bed and we recommend a 7mm brim assist because of the height and relatively small print base.  
The end-cap is a pretty easy print, and should not need glue or a brim.

The Light Shield Body prints pretty well with any settings, but we use 2 perimeter layers, 15% infill, grid infill and no supports, brims, or glue.

Note that a beginning of a sketch for an x-shaped leveling support base has been started in the model, but is not finished and not yet printable.

Note also that the "shank shield" is not designed for 3D printing.  The hope is that the .dxf file can be used to laser cut or mill that part out of acrylic or (better) polycarbonite.
**Assembly Notes:**

See the [main assembly instructions](https://github.com/jamespilgrim/PiTrac/blob/main/Documentation/PiTrac%20Version%202%20Assembly.md).
